Document : System Requirement Specification

Title : System Requirement Specification for Online College Management
System

Team : Students, Staff, Management, Security, Business Analyst,
Quality Assurance Team, System Analyst

Objective : The online College management system for college is
intended to provide easy access for students & management through a
single Web Portal using Internet.
It will provide ease of access for all users as well as members of
administration. It will enable Students to set up online profiles over
the internet and faculty members to keep track of all necessary
activities.

Scope : This system allows students to register themselves, Student
search, pay college fess online, get update of college events, faculty
details, exam schedules, weekly schedule.
Students can feel exam forms, submit feedback, can update profile
information using this system.
Faculty can keep track of performance of all students through portal,
attendance, exam records department wise etc.
Administrator can ask for all the necessary information from student
through portal, can arrange weekly schedules etc.

Definitions :
OCMS: Online College Management System
QA: Quality Assurance
Portal: Online Web Application
MIS: Management Information System
BI: Business Intelligence
Dashboard: Personalized information presented using BI techniques
such grid, score card, graph.
Requirement :
Functional Requirements : Students can register on the portal and
create new profile, will get id and password for future log in.
Student will have its own dashboard.
Student profile have personal details, academic details which contains
student id, roll number, course, mentor details

Student can pay fess online, fill exam form, get teacher information,
Daily schedule, weekly schedule.
Student can see sports department
Student can have access for online campus placement provided by
college.
Student can request for any document from administrator through
portal.
Student able to update all profile details except student id.
Student dashboard will have score card, areas of improvement, weekly
task
Faculty will be registered and have dashboard.
Faculty can maintain all students records department wise such as
attendance, exam marks, assignments, projects etc.
Faculty can check daily classes schedule on portal
Administrator will be able to manage give all access to student and
faculty
Administrator will be able to arrange daily and weekly schedule for
students and faculty department wise.
Administrator can request for any document from student through portal
Faculty will submit daily report to administrator.

Administrator will be able to arrange college events
Administrator will be the main authority over the system

Non Functional Requirements :
Security: Registered users will be allowed to make changes according
to need. Each student will be able to access system via authentication
and administrator will be able to authorize it.
The proposed System will provide access to specific data, operations
using role based security.
The Permissions will be based on specific roles, using SSL in all
transactions.
System will block operations for inactive users and would redirect for
authentication. And it will log off all users after sometime due to
inactivity.
Data will be in encrypted form. System uses firewall to protect from
outside attacks.

Reliability: The system will back up all data on regular basis and
recover in short time duration to keep system operational. Continuous
updates are maintained. During peak hours system will maintain same
user experience by managing load balancing.

Availability
uptime: 24* 7 available

99.99%

Maintainability : A Commercial database software will be used to
maintain System data Persistence.
A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online college
management portal i.e. Web Site to manage server capabilities.
An operations team for IT and support will easily monitor and
configure System using Administrative tools provided by Servers.
Separate environment will be maintained for system for isolation
in production, testing, and development.

Portability:
PDA: Portable Device Application
System will provide portable User Interface (HTML, CSS, and JS)
through users will be able to access online college management portal.
System can be deployed to single server to any OS or Cloud.

Accessibility:
Only registered customer will be able to access the system after
authentication.
Administrative team can add and remove new and old students based on
the continue session.

Durability :
System will retain user dashboard for 15 minutes even though customer
lose internet connection and join again.
System will implement backup and recovery for retaining student’s
data, teacher’s data and also passed out students data over time.

Efficiency :
In exam time, maximum number of users will login to portal and view
marks with same response time.
System will be able to manage all transactions with isolation.

Modularity :
System will designed and developed using reusable, independent or
dependent business scenarios in the form of modules.
These modules will be loosely coupled and highly cohesive.

Scalability :
System will be able to provide consistent user experience to
students as well as teachers irrespective of load.

Safety :
Online college management portal will be secure from malicious attack,
fishing as well as it is protected from outside attacks with proper
firewall.
Online shopping portal will be always kept updated with latest
antivirus software.
Business data will be backed up periodically to ensure safety of data
using incremental back up strategy.
Role based security will be applied for Application data and
operations accessibility.
